news: release `v7.0.0-rc1` (#1993)
hexojs/site: source/_posts/2023-03-18-hexo-7-0-0-rc1-released.md

---
title: Hexo 7.0.0 (RC1) Released
---

> [GitHub Release Note: v7.0.0 (RC1)](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/releases/tag/v7.0.0-rc1)

## Migration Guid

> Some of tag feature has been droped. Please use [hexo-tag-embed](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo-tag-embed) instead of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the built-in tags have been dropped (E.g. `gist`, `youtube`, `jsfiddle`, and `vimeo`). If you use those tags in your existing blog posts, you can install [hexo-tag-embed](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo-tag-embed) to continue using them with Hexo 7.0.0.
```

```sh
$ npm i hexo-tag-embed
```

> **Note**
>
> No need to install if you are not using (or will not use) `gist`, `youtube`, `jsfiddle`, `vimeo` tags in your post or page.

## Breaking Changes

* chore: require node14+ by [@yoshinorin] in [#5061](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/pull/5061)
* Dropped tag features. Please see `Migration Guid` section.
    * refactor: drop `gist` tag by [@yoshinorin] in [#5067](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/pull/5067)
    * refactor: drop `youtube` tag by [@yoshinorin] in [#5064](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/pull/5064)
    * refactor: drop `jsfiddle` tag by [@yoshinorin] in [#5066](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/pull/5066)
    * refactor: drop `vimeo` tag by [@yoshinorin] in [#5065](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/pull/5065)
* Dropped features
    * refactor: drop `external_link` boolean type by [@yoshinorin] in [#5063](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/pull/5063)

>     * refactor: drop `use_date_for_updated` option for `updated_option` by [@yoshinorin] in [#5062](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/pull/5062)

Reviewer: We should also mention how to migrate these in the migration guide.

Author: ?

Just install [hexo-tag-embed](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo-tag-embed). So, I think we do not need to add more explanation in the migration guide. What do you think?
